So far we focus very much on kind
of underlying principles of lean UX
we've talked a little bit
about upfront user research.
But there are there are certain
opportunities throughout the project
where you can insert a bit of user
research and testing, and so I wanna for
the remainder of the workshop kind of
explore some of those opportunities and
look at what you can do, and
how easy it is or otherwise.
So I wanna start with the kind of
information architecture stage when you're
doing initial planning.
And this feels slightly different
depending on whether you're building apps,
so whether you're building websites, but
in both cases there is opportunity for
testing maybe it works
out slightly differently.
And not just testing, but
also kind of defining the information
architecture using the user,
rather than some internal ideas
somebody comes up with which is often
a problem with this kinda thing.
So I kind of use it quite a testing user
centric heavy approach to information
architecture and you might not be able
to do all of the things I'm suggesting,
but it's certainly something
worth considering and
it's certainly something
worth trying to sell in.
I mean, the obvious benefit of doing
a user centric approach to information
architecture is find ability.
You know, it's gonna be easier for
find people to find functionality,
it's easier that for them to find content,
if it's organized in a way that Makes
sense to them and
around their mental model.
But it's not the only reason to go
about a more user-centric approach to
information architecture,
you're gonna find a lot less pushback.
When you suggest
an information architecture or
propose organizing things in a particular
way within your app or your website,
you will get pushback because not
everybody will think and organize
information in the same way as you do, and
so if you've got a data-driven approach,
it's gonna be much harder to criticize and
things are gonna go much smoother.
But probably the biggest reason
is to reduce the amount of debate
especially with websites, and
especially with larger clients where
you've got multiple departments.
Everybody has got their agenda
they want to push via the website.
And often the website becomes
a battleground for internal politics and
disagreements about how things
should be organized, and
who should get the highest profile,
and all the rest of it.
So actually having a user-centric
data-driven approach to information
architecture will save a lot of time,
a lot of pushback, and
improve the overall quality that
you produce at the end of it.
But as I said,
you can do what you can out of this.
And I'm gonna introduce you to basically
three kind of elements to this,
which you can do independently or
you can do all together.
And that is top tasks,
card sorting and tree testing.
Those are the things we're gonna look at,
and
we're gonna start by looking at top tasks.
So the very first thing you should do,
whether you are building an app or
a website is understand all of the things
that a user is gonna wanna do or
know on the website, and
then try to Identify from that very
large list cause it could
potentially be very large list,
identify the top tasks,
the things that users most want to do.
Because what you'll typically
find is that essentially
80% of your users are,
only interested in about 20% or
primarily interested in 20% of your
content or your features, right.
So you have a very long tail of things
that a few people will find very useful,
but not the majority, and
then you'll have a small number of
tasks that people find very useful.
So obviously we need to build
around the most important tasks,
the things that matter most to people,
okay.
And it helps to create this kind of
hierarchy of tasks that users wanna
complete.
And I use that word task, and I'm gonna
use it a lot and it does apply to a task
like, completing a form, or taking
some interaction, but it also applies
to answering a question, right, so
it applies to content and features.
So how do we identify the top tasks that
users want to complete in your app or
your website?
Well, there is a process
called top task analysis.
And top task analysis is a process
created by German government
that is very well established and enables
you through a user centric approach,
to work out the most critical
tasks users want to on a website,
so that you can streamline
the design around that.
However, top task analysis is a bit
of a pain in the arse to do, right?
And this is supposed to be a course
about time when your budget's low and
you haven't got a lot of time.
So, when it comes to top task analysis,
it's a little bit tricky because what
top task analysis traditionally consists
of is gathering through user research
a great big long list of potential tasks.
And you look in all kinds of places
to find this information, and
you talk to lots of users and
you compile this massive list of tasks.
And then you rationalize that list
into something more manageable, so
that it's not completely overwhelming.
And then after you've gone through all
of that process, you need to then get
users to vote on which of those tasks
matter to you most, which means you need
to go back to users again not just to gain
the initial list, but then to vote on it.
And then you've got to analyze
all the results as well.